# Writeup   Lihan Wang
## How I solved the crossword-filling problem in some detail
### How I set up the data structures necessary for the problem 
  The algorithm is backtracking, which is recursion. It uses not explicit stack during runtime. The board in the code is a two dimensional array. It's an improved brute force approach.
  
### how my algorithm proceeded.
  This frame is what I learned in cs445 from Prof Garrison. It's similar to that in this course.
    if (!accept(board, dictionary, minus))//test; if it doesn't break the rule, return the true; otherwise return false, which will return null to go back;
      return null;
    if (satisfied(board, dictionary)) {//if success finally, print the board and return it
      for (int i = 0; i < board.length; i++) {
        for (int j = 0; j < board.length; j++) {
          if (board[i][j] <= 'Z' && board[i][j] >= 'A')
            board[i][j] = Character.toLowerCase(board[i][j]);
        }
      }
      return board;
    }
    char[][] attempt = extend(board);//try the next place (+); if no '+' in the board, return null;

    while (attempt != null) {
      char[][] solution = fillPuzzle(attempt, dictionary);// if a solution is found, returns the board. Otherwise, return null;
      if (solution != null)
        return solution;
      else {
        attempt = next(board);//try the next letter (from a to z) ; if the last letter which is added is Z, eliminate the impact (make the letter null) and return null
      }
    }

    return null;
    
#### In every level, first I check if this level satisfy the rules by "accept" method: row and column are words or prefix, which depends on details shown in the code. If it satisfies, then go to check if this board is already successful by "satisfy" method; Otherwise, return null.  If the "satisfy" returns true, then return board to recurse back; otherwise, keep going.       Use extend to make the first '+' to 'A', and then go to the next level. If it doesn't success, it will return back. Then use"next" method to try"B"; keep trying until it becomes"Z". If one of them success, it will go to the next level. Otherwise, it will not. After trying 'Z', it means this level fails. It will go back to the previous level.
    
    
### Some debug issue and how to solve
 One example:
  I tried to make a newboard that contains only the lowercase letters, and then make stringbuilder to from the newBoard; However, the code bellow doesn't copy the other letters or marks. After print out the stringbuilder, I found out the mistake. Thus, a sentence should be added. "else newBoard[i][col] = (board[i][col]);"
  
    for (int i = 0; i < board.length; i++) {
      for(int j=0;j<board.length;j++){
        if (board[i][j] <= 'Z' && board[i][j] >= 'A')
          newBoard[i][j] = Character.toLowerCase(board[i][j]);
      (code add here)
      }
    }
    
## run-times for the programs for the various files in a table.
|Test      | Run time |
| -------- | -------- |
| Test 3a  | 0.07s    |
| Test 3b  | 0.2s     |
| Test 4a  | 2.0s     |
| Test 4b  | 1.7s     |
| Test 4c  | 0.10s    |
| Test 4d  | 0.18s    |
| Test 4e  | 30min    |
| Test 4f  | 0.43s    |
| Test 5a  | 1s       |
| Test 6a  | >30min   |
| Test 6b  | 25min    |
| Test 6c  | >30min   |
| Test 8b  | 0.1s     |
| Test 8c  | 4.1s     |


 
## asymptotic analysis of the worst-case run-time of the program

Assume it is a N\*N board,there are Y words in the dictionary.
The worst case of my algorithm is all of the positions are '+'.
There are n lines and n columns in total.
For every line an column, there are N-1 sequences of letters to be checked if they are prefix at most. And there is one sequence of letter to be checked if it is word.
For one sequence of letters, there are at most Y words in the dictionary to be checked. For one word in the dictionary, it needs at most N times to check if the sequence of letters in the board is the prefix or word of the word.
Thus, to sum up, its run time is at most 2N\*N\*Y\*N, which is O(N.^3\*Y).
